By Andile Mngxitama I see Jackie Shandu throwing some cheap shots at me again. His target is the RET comrades.  I’m in FB jail. But I do want to make this point. BLF doesn’t accept the accusations of corruption against the RET comrades. We refuse to echo the Stellenbosch rotten morality. WMC and its commissions have no locus standi to make any value judgments of the RET comrades. We regard all the accusations against these comrades as political. Furthermore, so long as the ANC is captured by the enemy there is no chance of fair trial for these comrades and any black leaders considered opponents of Stellenbosch. It’s the mark of ideological vacuousness to mimic the demonization of RET comrades by Stellenbosch. Our morals are revolutionary and we don’t share the degenerated and demented morals of the enemy. These half baked wokes are unpaid agents of the enemy and don’t even know it. They are yet to appreciate the adage of Chairman Mao: we should support whatever the enemy opposes and oppose whatever the enemy supports. These people are ideological toddlers. They really don’t understand the nature of contemporary struggle that has ideologically fractured the ANC. They think we side with angels only. They haven’t yet been inducted in the Leninist ethic of mobilizing all forces against the enemy, scoundrels included. We have our critique of the RET comrades. It’s merely tactical and not at all related to the accusations of corrupt or ethical failings according to the enemy. Our critique relates to how these comrades use the vote within a reality of a captured ANC. We take it as given that RET signifies a break with Stellenbosch. The tactical conundrum faced by the RET comrades inside the ANC is simply how to fight to regain the ANC from Stellenbosch whilst not shooting themselves in the foot, like they did in the 2019 national elections where they literally gave Stellenbosch ammunition to mow them down. The current violent attacks on the RET comrades is from the power they gave Stellenbosch through its proxy Cyril Ramaphosa. This is the tactical debate and critique we must mount against the RET comrades as friendly forces. What we must resist is to join the juvenile stupidity of accepting the accusations mounted by Stellenbosch against these comrades. We have serious work to do towards the 2021 Local Government Elections. These elections gives us a platform to test the possibility of reinforcing the RET votes in BLF in order to launch a defence and offensive for RET as a minimum program from within bourgeois institutions of local government. As Malcolm X teaches us, by any means necessary! Time to cast away illusions and juvenile irritations. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.