Mr Rodolfo Benítez Verson
Ambassador
Cuban Embassy
45, Mackenzie Street
Brooklyn
0181
24 April 2021 Dear Comrade Rodolfo Benítez Verson DON’T SEND ANY ENGINEERS OR DOCTORS TO SOUTH AFRICA We write to you as Black First Land First (BLF) a blacks only Socialist and Black Consciousness organization registered with the South African Independent Electoral Commission. We regard Cuba as an extended family of South Africa. We are eternally grateful to your great people for the sacrifices they made as a nation towards our liberation from the apartheid monster. However, we are duty bound to warn you about how the diplomacy and solidarity between our nations have become a cheque book relationship which is deeply mired in the ongoing neoliberal systematic corruption of the ANC government. We must speak directly to you because your government is built on principles and integrity. We ask you to please not send any engineers or doctors to South Africa. We request that you stop the program of sending the new lot requested by our government. Your help is not helping the people of South Africa. Your help is helping politicians to loot and confuse the people. You may not know this, but the corruption of the South African government which continues to invite your unwanted assistance is turning our people against Cuba and the socialist experiment. The Cuban help increasingly looks like a compradorial arrangement to exploit the financial resources of our nation. We write to ask Cuba and her people to stop playing Santa Clause on the request of the South African government. Please do not send the cohort of engineers requested by Minister Lindiwe Sisulu to South Africa. BLF is open to a meeting with the Cuban Embassy should you require further clarification. We hope that our friendly request shall receive the comradely consideration that we expect from the great government of Cuba. Yours in Struggle Black First Land First President: Andile Mngxitama Reposted from the BLF website No related posts.