By Andile Mngxitama I have been reading the appeal papers of CJ Mogoeng Mogoeng the whole morning. Remember that our CJ was instructed like a small boy to fall on his knees and apologize for nonsense on the instruction by the so called Palestine4Africa and a curious Indian Durban based organization called Women’s Cultural Group.
These two non African groups complained to the Judicial Conduct Committee (JCC) about the religious remarks of CJ Mogoeng. The real attack is about his position on the 666 vaccines and his refusal to bow to white power. These groups who also have a stone to grind with the CJ because of his religious beliefs, used the opportunity to attack our CJ using the JCC. These anti black Arabist and Indian nationalist bases in Durban found in Judge Mojapelo, who is keen to ingratiate himself with these powerful lobby groups that are pro Stellenbosch, a willing ally to lynch CJ Mogoeng Mogoeng.
It’s infuriating to read the illogical insulting judgement of Mojapelo who instructed CJ Mogoeng to apologize. It is clear that Mojapelo didn’t use his own mind as is expected of a judge. He literally was in a ja baas crusade on every point the Arabs and Indians were instructing him. As a self respecting black person I can’t accept that a foreign minority which has no allegiance to South Africa and the black majority should be allowed to harass our CJ like this. It’s an insult to us as blacks collectively.
The pro Palestine anti black groups love Palestine so much that they have no qualms minimising black suffering and appropriating our suffering to elevate the Palestine cause. They started with stealing the term apartheid and applying it to the Palestine/Israel conflict. Israel never used the term apartheid to denote its claims against Palestine. We suffered the official policy of apartheid and we are still suffering its effects which put the Arabs and Indians above us here in SA. Also these non Africans have now appropriated “Africa” just like the racist Afriforum. They call their anti black group, which is weaponised against Africans, by the name Africa4Palestine. There is nothing African about the group. It’s an Arabist anti black pro Palestine group. These groups don’t respect black people and hold the same anti black views the whites hold about us. It’s shocking the things they say about our CJ Mogoeng Mogoeng. They would never allow any black person to say such things in that tone and manner to any of their beloved leaders and about any of their religions. They just don’t take Africans seriously. To show that we shall no longer accept these insults we must bring down the statue of Gandhi there in Gandhi Square. Just for control. That’s decolonisation also mos.
Batho ba ba retlwaela mawaza. Here is the self description of the do called Women’s Cultural Group (WCG) and it’s activities. We need to dig deeper into these groups. Check: “WCG is an organisation that has been in existence for 60 years. Our main focus is education and the book Indian Delights which Womens Cultural Group has produced is instrumental in helping us assist as many students as possible with Bursaries Our members are a dedicated team of women who make every effort to assist in as many projects and events that will benefit the community. We host fundraisers, teas etc so that we are able to get the public to support the many ventures that are dear to all. One such event that the Group hosted on the 06th August 2014 was a ” Cuppa Tea for Palestine” which saw the group raising R50 000.00 for Islamic Relief. We take this opportunity to thank the community for their support with our ventures and may Allah (Swt) grant our members the strength to carry on with the many projects that we carry out.” We shall no longer fold our arms when blacks come under attack, irrespective of who it’s from. Hands Off CJ Mogoeng Mogoeng! Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization.