Anyone who has grown up on South African commercial farms know that white farmers kill blacks on farms. Anyone who pays even the most fleeting attention to farm workers lives in South Africa knows that blacks get killed and in court the white farmers say that they thought they were shooting a dog or a monkey. Anyone who cares to know would have known that since 1994 over 2 million farm workers have been evicted from farms. Let’s not pretend not to know that white farmers regularly deny burial rights to farm workers who worked for them. Our people are landless and brutalized in life and landless in death. Black First Land First (BLF) shall not join the chorus of fake rage to play political games with the lives of our people. The farmers who shot and killed black people in Mpumalanga did what white farmers do on farms on a daily basis. When blacks fight back politicians say these blacks must rot in jail. BLF refuses to shed crocodile tears for political expediency. We all know that farm workers are the property of the white man on farms to deal with as they wish. The white farmer has Afriforum, AgriSA, DA, FF+ and the ANC government on their side. The law protects white farmers. Have we forgotten Matlhomola Moshoeu, the black boy from Coligny murdered for taking sunflowers? Where are his killers? Have we forgotten Nelson Chisale, the farm worker fed to the lions? What happened to his killer? No, we refuse to join the staged rage to dupe the poor and oppressed. BLF calls for retribution. The courts love white farmers. Any black who expects justice from the courts is like a mouse that thinks it can get justice from the court of cats. The power of white farmers comes from land ownership. It’s the land that gives them the power of life and death over farm workers. To end the carnage and violence on farms, the land must be taken from white farmers and given to farm workers to create a new agricultural reality on commercial farms. Without ending racial feudalism on farms, farm workers shall continue to be slaves on white owned farms. Right now the power of white land owners is being entrenched by the Land Expropriation Without Compensation lie being pushed in parliament. The truth is that the two Bills on Land Expropriation are not about land expropriation. They are about keeping the land in the hands of white farmers so that the regime of hell can continue on farms. BLF wants justice and peace. These can come only when we fight back and take back the land. Anything else is a cruel lie to dupe the oppressed. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC)
10 April 2021 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225
Reposted from the BLF website.