The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has been consistent in its aid to white power to destroy black leaders who are enemies of Stellenbosch. The latest victory against blacks is the decision of the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) to bankrupt President Zuma through denying him state assistance to defend himself against the politically motivated judicial attacks. We have nothing to say about the racist Democratic Alliance (DA). It is only carrying out its white agenda against blacks. But we are saddened by the EFF, a party that has been able to win the hearts of a significant size of the revolutionary black youth through its false presentation as a revolutionary movement. The racist DA speaks white and acts white. It’s an admirable consistency for its white agenda. Only real morons like Mmusi Maimane, Lindiwe Mazibuko and Herman Mashaba can claim not to have known that a racist party is racist. What saddens BLF is the seamless capacity of the EFF to speak black and act white with no compaction. If the EFF is judged by what it does and not what it says, it will be plain than in fact it occupies the same anti black ideological zone as the DA, its trusted ally. A balance sheet of Black leaders who have been victimized by Stellenbosch would show that the EFF always leads the charge on behalf of white monopoly capital. Now they have clocked another victory yet again against blackness as they proclaim fidelity to the black cause. President Zuma must pay impossible sums of money yet the legal bills of the likes of Wouter Basson are fully paid for by the state and there is no murmur from the lips of the so called revolutionaries. The alliance between the DA and EFF was designed in London by Robin Renwick in 2015. It will endure once more after the 2021 Local Government Elections. We speak out so that the revolutionary youth, duped by these agents of white power, do not in future say no one warned them. The African National Congress (ANC) has squandered our past. The EFF will devour our future. If the revolutionary youth are not careful, the revolution shall be deferred in perpetuity. BLF reiterates its commitment to stand in solidarity with President Zuma. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC)
13 April 2021 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225
Reposted from the BLF website.