By Andile Mngxitama Often people who claim to be woke are led to believe, by some charlatans who present themselves as sages of Africanism, that Christianity is bad because it’s a colonial creation. These charlatans are of course preying on the lack of knowledge of their followers. They often only refer to the failed project of Constantine to try and edit the Bible, a holy document which is African in origin. What the charlatans forget to tell their sheep like followers, who are brainwashed into believing that to be anti Christ is to be woke, is that the colonialists who took our land and continue to oppress us also used what is called African spirituality to advance their evil project of colonialism and apartheid. The use of African spirituality by whites to oppress blacks is directly linked to the apartheid project in South Africa. The founder of apartheid, Hendrik Verwoerd, and the racist anti black National Party used African spirituality to help it come to power. I’m sure they also used the Bible of course by completely distorting its message. The main inyanga and sangoma who helped the National Party, and was even claimed to be a spy of the Afrikanerbond, is the famous and internationally respected Khotso Sethuntsa. Khotso was even a friend of the National Party leader J.G. Strijdom. However his closest friend and client was Verwoerd himself. It is said that before Verwoerd became Prime Minister, he was saved by Khotso’s powers from being killed by two bullets shot at him at some showground where Khotso was also present. Shortly before Verwoerd became Prime Minister and before the National Party won the elections, Verwoerd went to consult Khotso for African spirituality to help him win the elections. So there is irrefutable evidence that whites used African spirituality to gain power over blacks so as to implement apartheid. Anyone who doubts this must do their own research about how Verwoerd, the father of apartheid, used African spirituality to oppress Africans. Another less known African sangoma and inyanga, who helped the Afrikaner racists, is Kas Maine who has a whole book written on his painful life under the very hands of the Boere he helped with his African spiritual powers. I know for a fact that right now that the white men in Mpumalanga, who are killing blacks on farms, all have inyangas and sangomas. Bagomile labantu. Even the famous Sosobala Mbatha is rumoured to have on occasion landed his helicopter at some of the farms to qinisa the homes of the vicious land thieves to give them power over Africans. Where I’m going with this is that the charlatans who attribute Christianity to colonialism can’t make a basic distinction between a bad thing in itself and a good thing being used for bad ends by evil people. One does not stop using a knife because one’s relative were murdered by bad people using a knife. But weak minded people can be detained with tales of how bad a knife is by charlatans with pseudo knowledge. LAND thieves are evil. They used everything to justify their evil deeds. The fact that they tried to misuse Christianity for their evil agenda should not make us abandon a faith we blacks created and the enemy tried to distort for its evil agendas. I claim that even the attempts at editing the Bible by the evil man Constantine failed. The Bible remains a powerful tool of liberation. That’s why the slave masters didn’t want the slaves to learn to read. In fact, the slave masters didn’t trust the Bible so much that they further edited it and created a fake Bible with even fewer chapters just for the slaves. This slave Bible excluded amongst others all passages of revolts including the story of Moses. LAND thieves use any means including African systems to advance their evil agendas. Cowards and charlatans who are scared to fight the white man who stole the land keep us all busy hating the Bible and Christianity and not the oppressor. Even to this day all the so called African traditional attire are bought at the white man’s shop in Randfontein. Not only that, when we do imisebenzi we buy the cow, sheep and goat from the white man because we are landless and scared to fight to take back our land. We do libations with products from the white man. Beware of charlatans. They will keep you busy with irrelevant nonsense to avoid the real fight. Educate yourself and always be guided by one thing only, “does this thing I’m being told now help us unite blacks to fight for land and freedom?” If the so called knowledge does not help take the fight to the enemy, ignore it! Have a great Sunday. Shalom! Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. When using any of Black Opinion’s content, partly or in full, kindly always provide an active hyperlink to the original material. 