The Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, is being dragged to court for ruling that ABSA must pay back the money stolen from the people of South Africa during apartheid. It is no secret that Bankorp was part of a list of organizations and individuals that looted over R26 billion from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) just before the end of apartheid. Others include the Rupert family. Bankorp has since been swallowed by ABSA and the Public Protector was therefore correct to find that ABSA must pay back the money stolen from SARB. Black First Land First (BLF) supports the correct finding which has been overturned in a political decision of the North Gauteng High Court and erroneously buttressed by the Constitutional Court. It’s a simple matter that was never disputed that Bankorp, together with others, benefited unlawfully from the R26 billion so called “life boats” which was an illegal mechanism to steal money from SARB. The irony is that those who stole from SARB found favour with the current President, Cyril Ramaphosa, and his cronies like Pravin Gordhan who are linked to the looters of SARB and are therefore protected. Maria Ramos, who was CEO of ABSA at the time that the Public Protector’s report was released, is one of the CR17 donors. This explains why the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has hastened to drag the Public Protector to court. This is the revenge of the CR17 donors who have captured the state. Is it not ironic that real corruption like the over R200 billion Steinhoff mess has not seen the culprits such as Markus Jooste brought before the courts? The dragging of the Public Protector to court because she ruled that ABSA must pay back the money must be seen as evidence beyond doubt that the Ramaphosa administration is working for white monopoly capital. This is the fascism and tyranny of Stellenbosch. It’s an insult to the independence of the state and the sovereignty of our people. Let no one be confused about why the Public Protector is in court. It has nothing to do with any wrongdoing on her part. It’s all part of the fight back by the CR17 donors who have captured the state through capturing the State President. BLF calls on the nation to stand with the Public Protector and to pray for her protection. This is an evil war. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC)
21 January 2021 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225
Reposted from the BLF website.