Black First Land First (BLF) is appalled by the systemic targeting of the party’s President, Andile Mngxitama, by the Zondo Commission. In the notice marked 8th January 2021 the Commission‘s secretary who is the former President of Azapo, Professor Itumeleng Mosala, notified President Mngxitama that a government spy named Mr Y was going to implicate him in various unlawful activities such as money laundering, tax evasion and corruption. The notice further said that the spy would be protected by the Zondo Commission and his testimony would be in secret. No reasons were provided for this kangaroo court arrangement. The secret testimony of the spy, Mr Y, is expected between 25th and 29th January 2021. Surprisingly only on Saturday 23rd January 2021, did the Commission send an email saying Mr Y will not testify but a substitute spy named Ms K will testify on the affidavit deposed by Mr Y. No reasons for the sudden non availability of Mr Y were provided. BLF believes that the Commission is deliberately lying about the so called Mr Y’s non availability. We call on Judge Zondo to tell the nation under oath, where is Mr Y? Secondly, we are appalled by the obvious breaking of the rules of evidence by the Zondo Commission, including presenting through another person (Ms K) the evidence of Mr Y, which was deposed to in his affidavit. This is a comical situation of hearsay evidence, all calculated to tarnish the name of the President of BLF in a year of elections. BLF has instructed its lawyers to advice on the way forward. It’s ironic that the Commission has elected to jump the unfinished testimony of Brian Molefe by bringing the proceedings to an end under the guise of one of its officials catching Covid-19. Now they are targeting Mngxitama who is a known opponent of white monopoly capital that seems to have captured the Zondo Commission. We ask Judge Zondo to immediately disclose the truth about the spy named Mr Y. BLF will in due course hold a press conference to reveal the dirty tricks of the Zondo Commission. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC)
25 January 2021 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225
Reposted from the BLF website.