The announcement by the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) that it will permit the controlled compassionate use of Ivermectin in the treatment of Covid-19, is a ploy to distract the public from demanding the use of the drug by everyone infected with the virus, free from life threatening bureaucracy. SAHPRA‘s announcement suggests an application by healthcare professionals concerned for each patient for review by the association. This is no different from the current requirement of making individual section 21 applications for SAHPRA to grant permission to doctors to administer Ivermectin. Black First Land First (BLF) notes that SAHPRA has not even acknowledged receipt of the countless section 21 applications. SAHPRA must stop undermining our people. Whether doctors apply via section 21 or the controlled compassionate access programme they will be unnecessarily inundated with paperwork instead of seeing to patients resulting in more lives being lost. BLF notes that SAHPRA cautions about the lack of scientific data as a measure to deter people from using the Ivermectin. Well medical evidence shows that the downside to using Ivermectin is minimal and the benefits invaluable. You lose nothing except hope if it doesn’t work on you and this is evidently 1 in 5000. And if it works it will save lives and prevent disability in the millions. BLF demands that SAHPRA stops acting as agents of the Gates foundation in forcing their Covid-19 vaccines on the nation instead of making Ivermectin which is cheap, safe and accessible available to the public. We call on SAHPRA to approve Ivermectin for human use on parasites without delay. It is where its effectiveness and safety data are indisputable. This would effectively permit the medical profession to use the medication off-label both ethically and legally without fear of being prosecuted. This is already done in many countries including the US and Australia. The downside is so minimal, the bureaucracy is unnecessary. No one needs to die if we have Ivermectin! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC)
27 January 2021 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225
Reposted from the BLF website.