By Andile Mngxitama Shonisani Lethole was murdered! This is my layman’s reaction listening to the Health Ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgoba deliver his findings on the circumstances around the death of popular businessman Shonisani Lethole. Professor Makgoba was himself battling emotionally as he recounted a staggering litany of what amounts to gross negligence, if not reckless disregard for human life at the Thembisa Hospital where Lethole, a healthy young person, was admitted with breathing problems last June. He died not long thereafter but he spoke from the grave when the tweet he sent the Minister of Health, Dr Zweli Mkhize, gained traction. It’s instructive that Lethole sent his desperate call for intervention to the Minister who did nothing until after his death and is also exonerated by the recommendations of the Health Ombudsman. What we know from the Health Ombudsman’s report is that Shonisani’s death was in all likelihood preventable. He was healthy and had no underlying health conditions. He was a young person. In fact one of the experts who the Health Ombudsman consulted was emphatic that the death was indeed preventable. Therefore it’s not unreasonable to imagine murder through gross negligence. Lethole was denied food for over 100 hours according to the Health Ombudsman’s findings. That’s cumulatively like four days of refusal to give food to a patient under the care of the hospital. The treatment of medical records, diagnosis of tests and other basic essential routine practices point to systemic dysfunctionality of the hospital. Over and above the systemic dysfunctionality of the hospital, there is also moral and ethical decay. Instead of remorse and truth about the loss of life, hospital leadership chose to lie to cover themselves. This strikes one as sheer evil. But it is in fact indicative of the rot that runs up to the office of the Minister of Health and in fact the entire parliament, cabinet and the President himself. The Health Ombudsman’s recommended action focused on the leadership of the Thembisa Hospital. This is inadequate and doesn’t help to stop the criminal neglect of the public health system. Thembisa Hospital is not an isolated case. In fact it epitomizes the state of public hospitals. Punishing the managment and health-care givers at Thembisa Hospital may give us a false sense of justice. We need to ask the larger question of how to make sure that not one more person dies in our public hospitals out of such wanton neglect. Justice for Shonisani must in the final analysis mean an end to the state of public hospitals which are vectors of death instead of being temples of health. The problem is not merely the kind of shocking lack of leadership, skills, compassion and commitment by the medical professionals and managers. These are symptoms of the root problem which is political. The real problem here is that the elected public officials have abandoned the public sector for the private sector services they can afford. This leads to a total lack of oversight and even adequate budgetary allocations and monitoring. Members of Parliament, Ministers, Premiers, MECs, Mayors, Councilors and DGs, all these public servants and representatives are not directly affected by the service they give the public and there lies the rot. The solution to the state of our public healthcare system is to compel all these public representatives and senior government officials by law to use public hospitals. The Thomas Sankara Oath has long been proposed and now is the time to impose it on the elected politicians and public servants. If the Mayor of Ekhuruleni Mr Mzwandile Masina knew that by law when he falls ill he will be treated at Thembisa Hospital without any preferential treatment, he would out of self interest make sure that public hospitals stop killing people and save lives. This is also true for Members of Parliament, Ministers and the President. In memory of Shonisani Lethole, to make sure that his death is not in vain, we must now double our efforts to ensure that the Thomas Sankara Oath is implemented. Parliament must enact the Thomas Sankara Oath into law and compel elected politicians and senior officials in government to use public hospitals. Surely if what they give us is good for us, it must be good for them too. It’s morally depraved that politicians who are paid by the public can be given the unethical freedom to choose to abandon the public sector they are responsible for. Shonisani Lethole deserves justice and nothing less than fixing our public hospitals would do. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF).