By Andile Mngxitama There is a growing misrepresentation of political power as something not important. This is a mistake that must be quickly addressed. The notion that economics trumps politics is simply wrong and must be dispensed with. Truth is, there is no economic freedom without political freedom that takes itself seriously enough to command economic power. The Afrikaners fought hard to get political power from the British colonialists. They eventually got it in 1948 and used it to change the lives of the Afrikaner. Afriforum is the outcome of that political power. Hitler is another example of how the political can command economics. He was able to nationalise the banks of powerful families like the Rothchilds. Political power is the tool to realise economic power. There is no other way. China is another example of how the political must command the economy. Many people do not know that Jack Ma, the wealthiest Chinese, has recently been disciplined by the Chinese government and forced to respect it. The deal Nelson Mandela cut at CODESA was to secure political power so that the state is in the hands of blacks and can advance the Black Agenda. Thabo Mbeki inherited a state not wobbled by the sun set clause, and above that a two thirds majority of the ANC. Thabo Mbeki had complete political power to take us to liberation. The ANC had a two thirds majority and did not need any other party to amend the constitution to remove the compromises of CODESA, more especially on the land question. Mbeki chose to side with the apartheid killers and protected them from prosecution here in SA. He even went to the extent of going abroad to support the companies that helped the apartheid government to kill and oppress us. He stood against the victims of apartheid. The story of the Khulumani Support Group is still to be told. This decision to support the enablers of apartheid for profits was a political decision. This decision was, thank God, overturned by President Jacob Zuma who immediately reversed Mbeki’s sellout position on the litigation and supported the apartheid victims. The decision not to use the 2/3rds majority to give land back was a political decision. Mbeki could have decided to use the political power he had to address the land question. Incidentally, Mbeki pushed the rhetoric of redress and Afrikanism when his actions were actually anti black. To those who claim that political power is not important, how do they explain the fact that Johann Rupert and the Oppenheimers had run away from SA during the intensification of the Radical Economic Transformation agenda? If political power is not important, why is it that Stellenbosch paid the opposition parties to get rid of Jacob Zuma? If political power is irrelevant why has white monopoly capital forked out R1 billion to buy itself a President? Political power is too important to be left in the hands of politicians. We need patriots and revolutionaries to take political power and use it as an instrument of liberation. This is our challenge today. We don’t have to be politicians to be in politics. We come to politics to end politics through using political power to serve the people, not politicians and their handlers. Every one of the problems we have today in SA is political, all of them. And the basic problem is the refusal of our political class to act black and put black first. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. This is an extract from his address on 27 April 2021 on the topic “Land is Freedom”