By Andile Mngxitama BLF was on the ground yesterday, 8 May, busy with various programs towards the 2021 LGE Report 1: BLF leaders, the Deputy President Zanele Lwana and Deputy Secretary General Lalamani Masindi amongst others, were in Orlando East next to the DOCC mobilizing for the launch of the BLF 2021 LGE Manifesto “Battle Plan” on 15 May 2021. The community responded positively to attending the launch.     Report 2: Sub Region 1 in Tshwane was also working. BLF is growing fast in Tshwane. The leadership of Comrades Kagiso, Audrey and Lerato, amongst others, is commendable. I will be visiting soon.    Report 3: BLF is dealing with racists in Sodwana Bay through land expropriation. Yesterday, BLF KZN led a protest march and delivered a petition putting them on terms to submit to the authority of Chief Zikhali and the will of the people. The creativity of these comrades is inspiring. The struggle there is intensifying. The enemy is wounded and kicking dangerously…   Report 4: Yesterday in Ikageng, in the North West province. one of the people who responded to the call to form BLF branches is comrade Dikgang (in spectacles holding papers). I asked him to inbox me and we arranged that I will come by with forms. I was there to welcome the comrade with the amazing leadership of the Dr Kenneth Kaunda Region, the Deputy Secretary Tseko Nkhane and the Spokesperson of the Region comrade Mbulelo Mngxitama. We are moving!    Report 5: We buried my late father’s friend Oompie Petrus Diseko yesterday. It was an emotional day also. Here I join the queue with the people.    Report 6: These mothers raised me. Their condition on farms have not changed. The brutality continues. They came to bury their fellow worker. You will not understand my rage right now. We are going to end the suffering of our people on farms. It must be done!   Report 7: The next layer of warriors from farms. They are sharp, they are angry and they are ready to fight. We shall avenge our parents with a smile and a raging sword. Victory is certain!  Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. 