By Andile Mngxitama I have been meditating on: “JUDGES 7 Gideon Defeats the Midianites 1 Early in the morning, Jerub-Baal (that is, Gideon) and all his men camped at the spring of Harod. The camp of Midian was north of them in the valley near the hill of Moreh.
2 The LORD said to Gideon, “You have too many men. I cannot deliver Midian into their hands, or Israel would boast against me, ‘My own strength has saved me.’
3 Now announce to the army, ‘Anyone who trembles with fear may turn back and leave Mount Gilead.’ ” So twenty-two thousand men left, while ten thousand remained.
4 But the LORD said to Gideon, “There are still too many men. Take them down to the water, and I will thin them out for you there. If I say, ‘This one shall go with you,’ he shall go; but if I say, ‘This one shall not go with you,’ he shall not go.”
5 So Gideon took the men down to the water. There the LORD told him, “Separate those who lap the water with their tongues as a dog laps from those who kneel down to drink.”
6 Three hundred of them drank from cupped hands, lapping like dogs. All the rest got down on their knees to drink.
7 The LORD said to Gideon, “With the three hundred men that lapped I will save you and give the Midianites into your hands. Let all the others go home.”
8 So Gideon sent the rest of the Israelites home but kept the three hundred, who took over the provisions and trumpets of the others…” The Lesson Of Today For Me Is That God Will Provide The Correct Army For The Correct Battle. We are believers and shall fight as such. I’m going to Church this morning to worship and reason with God. Thus far the Lord has been kind and merciful. Like Gideon, we shall emerge victorious against the mighty enemy. Stay strong in faith… Shalom Why did God cut the size of Gideon’s army? God was concerned about boastfulness. God knew people are wicked and full of hubris, and are conceited and have an exaggerated sense of self importance. If the 32 000 army took to war, they would have attributed the victory to themselves and not God. God doesn’t like boastful people. People who think they are the Alpha and Omega. So God reduced the army of Gideon from 32 000 to a mere 300 and gave it victory so that Israel may know she is saved by God and not boastful people. Read your bible with the eye of wisdom. Be humble yet strong in faith. We are at war with a powerful enemy but we shall be victories and not boastful. Stellenbosch shall fall! Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. He is BLF’s City of Johannesburg Mayoral candidate for the 2021 Local Government.