Solidarity message by the President of the African People’s Convention, Comrade Themba Godi, on the occasion of the 2021 Local Government Elections manifesto (Battle Plan) launch of Black First Land First on 15 May 2021 held at the DOCC in Orlando East, Soweto. To: BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST (BLF) Dear Comrade President Re: APC SOLIDARITY MESSAGE: On behalf of the African People’s Convention (APC) I extend our heartfelt revolutionary solidarity with you on this important occasion of the launch of your local elections campaign. We are happy and wish you all of the best in these elections. The fundamental standpoint of the APC is to wish success to all progressive forces. Elections, like all political spaces, are a contested terrain that can not be left to the political forces that serve alien class interests.
The voice of the Azanian tendency must be heard and strengthened in all spheres of government. The 2019 National and Provincial elections outcomes have sidelined the Azanian tendency, but we now have an opportunity to reassert ourselves, use the platforms of governance to serve our people and raise consciousness. The tasks before us are stark and obvious.
The forces of Neocolonialism, that is, at the service of capitalism and Imperialism, are triumphant, the beneficiaries of apartheid are emboldened, the promise of freedom remains a dream perpetually differed for the majority of our people.
Therefore, organisation and structure are critical to capacitate us for brilliant victories ahead. The APC remains committed to the call we made to the BLF leadership in 2017 to push for unity of purpose, unity in action of all progressive forces. It is only in a United Front that we can concentrate our forces to deal telling blows to the enemy. We do not see competition but cooperation and emulation amongst the Left forces. The APC wishes you fruitful deliberations, progressive resolutions and resolute implementations.
Victory is desirable. Victory is the goal.
Victory to all progressive forces, defeat to all reactionary forces. The cause of Afrika must triumph. Yours for a united and Socialist Afrika Cde Themba Godi
APC President
13/05/2021 Click here to download the letter. Reposted from theBLF website.    