Solidarity message by the CEO of UP Money, Mr Jude Ignatius Matsimela, on the occasion of the the 2021 Local Government Elections manifesto (Battle Plan) launch of Black First Land First on 15 May 2021 at the DOCC in Orlando East, Soweto. An Elephant tied with a rope As a man was passing the elephants, he suddenly stopped, confused by the fact that these huge creatures were being held by only a small rope tied to their front leg. No chains, no cages. It was obvious that the elephants could, at anytime, break away from their bonds but for some reason, they did not.
He saw a trainer nearby and asked why these animals just stood there and made no attempt to get away. “Well,” trainer said, “when they are very young and much smaller we use the same size rope to tie them and, at that age, it’s enough to hold them. As they grow up, they are conditioned to believe they cannot break away. They believe the rope can still hold them, so they never try to break free.”
The man was amazed. These animals could at any time break free from their bonds but because they believed they couldn’t, they were stuck right where they were. Like the elephants, black South Africans have gone through life hanging onto a belief that we cannot take charge of our own destiny simply because we once were tied by a small white rope at a time when we knew less, and were not strong enough to break free. This small white rope in of itself knows our potential full and well, and it is scared that soon enough we will break away from this mental slavery of inferiority, and walk through the open prison doors and step right into the freedom where our destiny awaits, because in truth, we are in a prison with doors wide open. WHY DO YOU STAY IN PRISON WHEN THE DOOR IS SO WIDE OPEN? Give yourself the space tonight, to listen to your own voice and your own soul away from all the background noise of corrupt leadership and economic oppression, and begin to truly introspect with the objective of answering this one question. “Why do you stay in prison when the door is so wide open? You were born with wings, why do you prefer to crawl through life?” We are held back in life not because of who we are, but who we think we are, who we have been told we are. We are imprisoned by our beliefs because we have allowed the beliefs of others peoples opinions, to define us. Enslaved by this mental bondage, we do not realize the potential within each of us. The time for growth is now fellow South Africans. Our success in changing the laws of our land from being watch dogs of the white minority population “the small white rope,” depends highly on our unity. We need to unite behind the black agenda because, next phase to true freedom is the economic emancipation of black South Africans. We have been sold a false dream my brothers and sister, and we believed the lies. Until the laws that define stokvels as pyramid schemes are changed, we cannot rest. Stokvels have served us during a difficult time in our history when we were literally in bondage or slavery. They continue serve us well to date, and for them to be attacked in the manner they are is criminal therefore, we are breaking the white rope of bondage by insisting on free enterprise without interference. The laws that oppresses the indigenous people of this here land must be blot out of our justice system. Unfortunately or fortunately, it is only though unity that can we achieve this change. Growth is painful. Change is painful. But nothing is as painful as staying stuck somewhere you don’t belong so fellow South Africans, let it be know by all within the boundaries of this land that, from this day on we are reclaim our dignity. From this day on black grandmother, grandfathers, mothers, fathers, sons and daughters of this here land are joining hands together, and with one resounding voice echo the words that were once spoken by Lyndon B Johnson when he said, “We seek not just freedom but opportunity. We seek not just legal equity but human ability, not just equality as a right and a theory but equality as a fact and equality as a result.” let true freedom reign through this beautiful land. God bless you all. Reposted from the BLF website.