By Andile Mngxitama Let’s get this right. BLF is a revolutionary movement for all blacks, not just Christians. However, before you criticize Christians please familiarize yourself with such things as Black Theology and names like Enoch Mgijima. That would help a lot. When I pray, I’m very deliberate about what I’m asking from God. And I also know that prayer without action is of no use. As someone who is trained in social theory, I can recognise a materialist conception of religion in his teachings. I’m fascinated by how he keeps on coming back to the notion that a prophesy is not a lazy prediction but a situation that is actively engaged to manifest. Any person with a bit of exposure to existentialism would immediately recognise the question of choice and self actualisation. It’s unfortunate that we don’t have people who take thinking seriously. What we have is easy denunciation and negative slogans and insults. I’m intellectually animated by the prophetic movement. South Africa has no intellectuals … We have parrots who get their knowledge from memes and Wikipedia. Another time I would like to meditate more on the teachings of Major 1. Do your homework before you venture to pontificate. Oh yes, I see visions. One has stayed with me since I was in Church in Randburg with Apostle Magola. I see a strong muscled black arm holding a sharp black sword carried by a massive cloud chopping heads of land thieves across the length and breath of Azania. Every day I pray for strength and wisdom to avenge my people. I know exactly who must taste the wrath of justice. I pray for my fears and hesitations to fade and I face my destiny as a man of God. We need to be spiritually engaged to turn our reality around. The black condition demands it. Before you insult Christians, try to know who Enoch Mgijima is and what he did 100 years ago… Shalom! Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. He is BLF’s City of Johannesburg Mayoral candidate for the 2021 Local Government.