Solidarity message by the CEO and Chancellor of African Patriotic Academics,Thabang Phucu Vilakazi, on the occasion of the 2021 Local Government Elections manifesto (Battle Plan) launch of Black First Land First on 15 May 2021 held at the DOCC in Orlando East, Soweto Message of Solidarity to the President of the Black First Land First, and the entire leadership team Dear President and the entire leadership team of Black First Land First: I Thabang Phucu Vilakazi as the Chief Executive Officer and Chancellor of the African Patriotic Academics (APA) is sending the message of solidarity to the Black First Land First. As APA we understand the struggles of black people, and the importance of land to us as the black people.
However, we could not attend the launch due to unforeseen circumstances, therefore we are fully behind the Black First Land First, we do understand its struggles, and we are 100% behind you. We hope in future we will meet with BLF in person and discuss the most important and sensitive issues faced by Africans and discuss possible solutions. We stand in solidarity with the Black First Land First. Our enemy as black people is one, which is neo-colonialism, imperialism, toxic African leadership, white monopoly capital, exploitation of the African resources and economy by the West and Chinese. Our enemy should be defeated and distracted from different angles. Kwame Nkrumah once said, and I quote “Apart we are weak and together we are strong” and “we face neither east, nor west”.
We should bring to life the ideologies of our Pan African icons. It is time Africa reclaims its glory and rewrites its own history. The African Patriotic Academics is a research and strategic organization that consists of 11 researching institutions(departments). APA is aiming to address the imbalances taking place in our country and ultimately our continent at large. Moreover, APA aims to address the dependence of Africa’s development from the East and Western Worlds. As such APA is giving the platform to young energetic African youth and Academics to come forward to showcase their abilities, talents and skills to move Africa to the highest level of Economic liberation, inventions and innovations. Africa has been exploited for far too long and as Africans we do nothing about that, as such it is high time we unite as Africans, home and abroad, and bring together ideas and solutions which will move the African Superstate Continent to the next highest level of transformation. Yours Sincerely: Thabang Phucu Vilakazi Reposted from the BLF website. Click here to download the letter.