Our movement, Black First Land First (BLF), turns five years today. In a cold, rainy day five years ago our movement was launched in Soweto. The unique character of our movement is its unapologetic commitment to black people. This identity has attracted some of the most powerful enemies who have sought to silence our movement since its inception. We have nothing to celebrate because black people remain landless in their own country. BLF has survived sustained attacks from the enemy of black people. We are the only political formation that was banned since 1994. So feared is BLF that the representative of land thieves, Freedom Front Plus, engineered a wicked plan to get BLF banned by the IEC. Land thieves tremble in the presence of BLF, because we don’t act radical to dupe the poor and excluded. We mean what we say. How can we celebrate when we haven’t achieved the objective we have been formed for? Black people remain at the bottom of the South African society. We are still poor, hungry and landless. Racism has not ended. Our people are killed like animals on farms by land thieves. Our children get shot and killed for asking for free education. Millions are recipients of the R350 SRD grant which no politician would live on for a day. Evictions of the poor remain a reality. The promise of Land Expropriation Without Compensation has become a cruel ruse to dupe the poor for votes. BLF wants to celebrate, but the black condition makes it impossible to do so. It’s been five years of struggle, five years of great defeats and sobering realisations. When the enemy formed a conspiracy through vote theft in the 2019 national elections to exclude BLF from representing our people in parliament, they thought they would break our spirit. They were wrong! BLF has returned, even stronger and wiser. The white owned media has sought to bury our movement alive. The media has sought to erase BLF from the imagination of the people, but it has failed! It’s been five years of struggle, five years of being jailed for standing for the truth. Our movement has tasted rubber bullets on a constant basis. Only this movement has physically confronted the most powerful family in South Africa, the Oppenheimers. Our struggle has frightened Johann Rupert so much that he has over 30 High Court interdicts against BLF. Like a frightened child, Rupert has run to court and begged it to interdict BLF from taking his farms. Does he think that any unjust decision that entrenches land theft would be heeded by our revolutionary movement? It has been five years of educating our people about who the real enemy is. BLF has sought to clarify the primary from the secondary contradictions. No revolution is possible without understanding these two levels and how they interface. BLF has taken the principle of unity amongst blacks and war to the enemy seriously. As part of our commitment to this, BLF has defended all black leaders irrespective of political affiliation who have come under attack from the enemy. BLF has stood with President Zuma, Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, Judge Hlophe, the Public Protector Advocate Mkhwebane, Brian Molefe, Dudu Myeni, Hlaudi Motsoeneng, Major 1 and many others, even those who hate us. It was BLF that brought the CIEX report back to life. The report shows that just before the end of apartheid, the primary enemy which is white monopoly capital stole over R26 billion from the South African Reserve Bank. Amongst the thieves are today’s ABSA Bank and Johann Rupert. BLF members were arrested for demanding action on the instruction of the then Public Protector Advocate Thuli Madonsela who refused to investigate her benefactors like Rupert. There were also many victories on the way. The main victory being the fact that we have survived the enemy assaults. We are still fighting. Recently, BLF put up a fight for justice in KwaZulu-Natal for the rights of land and property of our people on Sodwana Bay. After 30 years of being robbed and many interventions by political parties, the people had remained dispossessed. BLF stepped in and restored the rights of our people. In the North West white farmers are vicious like in most parts of the country. BLF has stepped in and provided the people with a shield. The next five years will see BLF engaged in heightened forms of resistance for liberation. The enemy can’t keep BLF out. The first act of defiance is BLF’s representation in the Local Government in 2021. There is nothing the enemy can do to stop us and it will not be allowed to steal our votes. It’s been five years of struggle. We shall make it a decade of advancing against the enemy and exposing the charlatans who delay and detour the revolution. Tomorrow, as our organization turns 5 years and one day, we shall launch the 2021 Local Government Battle Plan in Soweto where we will be announcing our fifteen point program to fix our municipalities. We invite society to interact with the Battle Plan. Our people want change. BLF commits to be their Lodestar to Victory. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC)
14 May 2021 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Kabelo Seagiso
(Head of Communications)
Cell: +27 63 548 2425
Reposted from the BLF website.